Batch function update proposal (#3323)
CDCgov/prime-reportstream: prime-router/docs/proposals/0013-batch-retry.md

instances of the batch function (one per message on the queue). 

Each of these functions then race to select and lock 
all records from the Task table that are for the receiver in question. The function instances that fail to get any
records die.

If a batch function fails to succeed it will be lost in the ether and require manual resetting to pick up and batch
included records.

### Proposed New Functionality
We can improve this situation and add retry/scalability by adding a cron job and altering the way we use the batch
queue. Instead of adding each message-per-receiver-per-bucket to the queue at ingestion a cron job could run at
the minimum granularity for batching, determine which receivers need to be batched at that time, and put a message
on the queue to be handled immediately by the batchFunction. This is a minimal-change approach that leaves the
Task table management as it is but severely reduces our performance bottlenecks and race conditions. Once done, the
single run of the batch function for that receiver will pull either all outstanding records (or up to <limit> if there)
is one for this receiver and batch them.

> 

Reviewer: 1. ideally process would stop computing the next_action_at, allowing it to be lighter weight and the system more recoverable... this is assuming it's never the case that a report should be held for future batching (e.g. don't batch and send report A until at least three days from now)
    - I do think it makes sense to consider, and maybe even implement drafts of, a few of ways of figuring out what batches go out when.
2. What happens in this case currently? The simplest solution sounds like iterating through in the reports in chunks of `limit` within the batch function itself.

> 

Reviewer: another possibility for the `scheduler` is to run it once a day, hour, whatever and have it use azure queue's scheduled events kind of like we do now. The benefit of this is we wouldn't have to figure out the minimal granularity of batching, and so wouldn't have to make any updates if that was changed.

> 

Reviewer 2: 1.   I'm not a fan of removing next_action_at as produced by the process step - its too useful, its already written, and its accurate. 
1.  Note that the 'tweak' gives you retries for free, no extra coding, no complexity.

2. _What happens currently?_   With one message per report now, there are threads-a-plenty to run multiple chunks.  When the alarm goes off, up to 12 batch function threads start.  If a thread locks the first 1000 rows in Task, then there's a zillion other threads ready to lock the next 1000 and so on.
2.   I worry the 'simplest solution' is single threaded, and won't solve the 'horrid' scenario I outlined.   We have to use the cloud's  parallelism to recover, or you risk falling ever further behind.

FYI Minimal granularity of batching right now is 1 minute - that's baked into the settings objects, so isn't likely to change soon.

> 

Reviewer 2: OK, @whytheplatypus and I had a good convo on this.     We're proposing to stick with the original Cle/Gage idea for part 1) of the above

> 

Reviewer 2: I haven't had time to think about this, but I wonder if we could, as part of this work, correct the `limit` so it nicely limits on number-of-Items rather than the current number-of-reports-batched, which is confusing and not how customers think.

walks over, packages up the reports, and gets to them to appropriate outbox. If for some reason they are unable to 
do that (tripped on their shoelaces or something) the assistant can call back to the mail room to ask them to send
someone else.

### Dev Notes
To implement these changes, we would need to
* determine minimal batching granularity
* create a cron job that runs at that granularity
* either cache or dynamically build a directory of which receivers get batches at which time
* when the cron job triggers, add a 'batch' queue message with the name of the receiver
* rename 'ReceiverEvent' to 'BatchEvent' for clarity (in the codebase - Event.kt)
* look into the 'at' parameter in batchFunction to determine if it is still needed
* we would need to look into a setting change for receiver to indicate 'sendIfEmptyBatch' and generate empty batch
files if set to true
* Since the batchFunction locks the task rows that it is processing, it doesn't matter if runs for the same receiver
overlap (this is not ideal, but still a far cry better than what we have today)

### Benefits Gained / Problems Addressed
- Scalability - one queue message per receiver per batch bucket

> - Recoverabilty/Retry - if a batch fails, the queue message can be re-added to the queue and re-processed

Reviewer: In this case both will happen. An initial retry for some very transient error, and the next time the cron triggers a more robust recovery.

> - Recoverabilty/Retry - if a batch fails, the queue message can be re-added to the queue and re-processed

Reviewer 2: The 'past-due' style combines retry and batch into the same mechanism, instead of having to code a figure-out-the-batch-time, then separately code a retry mechanism.

However, the 'past due' style does not handle the sendIfEmptyBatch feature as elegantly.

> - Recoverabilty/Retry - if a batch fails, the queue message can be re-added to the queue and re-processed

Reviewer: yup we're saying the same thing. The queue message is just the trigger for the batch function, the batch function will always get all past due messages.

> - Recoverabilty/Retry - if a batch fails, the queue message can be re-added to the queue and re-processed

Reviewer 2: Just to be clear, in order to get past-due messages, it uses the next_action_at field in TASK?

(Oh, and to answer an earlier question: for sanity's sake, yes let's assume it's never the case that a report should be held for future batching)

# Batch Process Update / Retry
The batching process could use more robust retry functionality and there is an opportunity for additional improvements
to the functionality as a whole to address scalability and performance concerns.

Associated Ticket - #2902

### Current Batch Functionality  
Each incoming message puts an entry into the 'batch' queue per receiver that message is going to, using the hidden
'next action at' part of the queue and selecting the next 'batch bucket' for the associated receiver.

When that time comes all queue messages for the receiver in question are added to the queue and picked up by individual 
instances of the batch function (one per message on the queue). 

Each of these functions then race to select and lock 
all records from the Task table that are for the receiver in question. The function instances that fail to get any
records die.

If a batch function fails to succeed it will be lost in the ether and require manual resetting to pick up and batch
included records.

### Proposed New Functionality

> We can improve this situation and add retry/scalability by adding a cron job and altering the way we use the batch
> queue. Instead of adding each message-per-receiver-per-bucket to the queue at ingestion a cron job could run at
> the minimum granularity for batching (1 minute), determine which receivers need to be batched at that time, and put a 
> message on the queue to be handled immediately by the batchFunction. This is a minimal-change approach that leaves the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can improve this situation and add retry/scalability by adding a cron job and altering the way we use the batch
queue. Instead of adding each message-per-receiver-per-bucket to the queue at ingestion a cron job could run at
the minimum granularity for batching (1 minute), determine which receivers need to be batched at that time, and put a 
message on the queue to be handled immediately by the batchFunction. 

The Batch function will be changed to grab all Tasks whose next_action_at is in the past, thereby creating a natural retry mechanism.  (Currently Batch requires an exact match of dates). 

This is a minimal-change approach that leaves the
```

Task table management as it is but severely reduces our performance bottlenecks and race conditions. Once done, the
single run of the batch function for that receiver will pull all outstanding records up to [receiver limit] and batch 

> them. If there are more records than [receiver limit] it will continue to follow the batching process until all records
> have been batched.  We will need to take a snapshot of the id of the 'last record' at start of batch time or this could
> be an infinite batching process if records continue to trickle in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
them. 

If there are more records than [receiver-limit] it will place
 `(count(reports-past-due-for-batching-for-one-receiver) / [receiver-limit] )`
 messages on the queue for that receiver, and depend on Azure to scale to meet that demand, as well as on Azure's queue throttling settings (in `host.json`) to avoid swamping the system.

This will cover situations where, for example, Batch has been down for some time and Batch work is horrendously backed up.
```

@clediggins-usds:    @whytheplatypus and I had a good discussion about this on Friday, and this seemed like a good approach to this problem.
